Well, what is a design system?
There's no industry definition for
a design system.
But if you hear a designer
talking about a design system,
they're most likely talking about
the UI kit, the foundational
elements like color and typography,
grid, iconography, things like that.
And when you hear an engineer
discuss design systems,
they're probably referring to
the component library in the style guide.
But really a design system
is kinda all these things.
It incorporates pieces from design,
pieces from engineering all wrapped up.
So why do design systems matter?
Why are they important?
Why are we all here today?
So everyone, regardless of circumstance,
needs to be able to achieve the same
results from your application.
They don't necessarily have to be able
to do it in the same exact way, but
you have to provide the means for
them to accomplish their tasks.
And design systems are gonna ensure that
you have an accessible color palette,
that your type scale is appropriate
enough where people can actually go and
zoom in on the browser and
actually see your content.
And they have to be able to navigate
your application with a keyboard and
use it with assistive technology.
So design systems help with those.
Design systems facilitate consistency.
So we live in a time when
it's really common for
large enterprise companies
to own multiple products.
If we think of Google,
you could think of G Suite.
If you think of Gmail, Google Flights,
all of those interfaces
kind of all look the same.
You can look at that and say,
that's a Google product.
And that's because they're using material
design which is a design system.
So having a system really
allows your company to
unify your different products and
their brand identity.
Updating is no longer a pain in the butt
when you have multiple products.
You can update a style or an interaction
in one place in your system.
And then,
it'll propagate out to every package or
every products that's using it with
just a simple update to your package.
Responsiveness ,so mobile
devices account for
about half of all web traffic worldwide,
and so we need to make sure
that our interfaces and our components
account for different screen sizes.
This one's a fun one, this isn't something
I can just thought of before, but
this is two fold.
So when you onboard new hires, having
a design system that's well documented
is really a great way
to get them onboarded.
It gives them an intro to all the
technologies and all of the processes for
getting up and running, essentially.
But if you have multiple teams
working on different products, and
you're all using the same design system,
you can take a developer from squad A,
put them on squad B and
there is zero time to get up and going.
So that's really, really useful.
You're probably confused why flexibility
is on here because I just said
consistency is very important.
And flexibility, I mean that's in terms of
setting parameters on the different types
of components that our engineers and
our designers can use.
So you can't just provide one button and
that is it, right?
We need to provide different sizes maybe,
or buttons that have status colors and
things like that.
So by providing boundaries on
the flexibility, we're not restricting our
designers or engineers, but we are giving
them a set of tools that they can use.
And then lastly is speed.
So once you actually have your first
big release, your stable release,
to actually build new features and
design new features is so much faster.